README.md, before:

# **natural-utility**

`natural-utility` is a simple helper tool to get easily your work as a **module loader**, **route middleware**, **plugin middleware** and **flash message**.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility) [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/ju7ciy6fh42rsnkl?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/restuwahyu13/natural-utility) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/restuwahyu13/natural-utility) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/restuwahyu13/natural-utility?branch=master) [![Known Vulnerabilities](https://snyk.io/test/github/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/badge.svg?targetFile=package.json)](https://snyk.io/test/github/restuwahyu13/natural-utility?targetFile=package.json) [![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg)](https://standardjs.com) [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/natural-utility.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/natural-utility) [![install size](https://packagephobia.now.sh/badge?p=natural-utility)](https://packagephobia.now.sh/result?p=natural-utility) ![node-current](https://img.shields.io/node/v/natural-utility) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/restuwahyu13/natural-utility)


## Table of Contents

- [Get Started](#get-started)
	* [Language Translate](#language-translate)
		* [Indonesian](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/tree/master/language/indonesian)
		* [English](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/tree/master/language/english)
	* [Framework Support](#framework-support)
	* [Features](#features)
	* [Installation](#installation)
	* [Example Usage](#example-usage)
	* [API Reference](#api-reference)
		* [naturalModule](#naturalmodule)
		* [naturalRoute](#naturalroute)
		* [naturalPlugin](#naturalplugin)
		* [naturalFlash](#naturalflash)
	* [Working With Database](#working-with-database)
		* [MongoDB](#mongodb)
		* [MySQL](#my-sql)
		* [PostgreeSQL](#postgree-sql)
		* [Mongoose](#mongoose)
	* [Working With Framework](#working-with-framework)
	* [How To Test](#how-to-test)
	* [Contributors](#contributors)
	* [Changelog](#changelog)
	* [Lincense](#license)

## Get Started

### Language Translate
+ [Indonesian](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/tree/master/language/indonesian)
+ [English](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/tree/master/language/english)

### Framework Support

| Framework Support | globalModule | pluginMiddleware | flashMessage |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Express | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: |
| Koa | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | :x: |
| Hapi | :heavy_check_mark: | :x: | :x:  |
| Fastify | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | :x:  |
| Restify | :heavy_check_mark: | :x: | :x: |
| Sails | :heavy_check_mark: | :x: | :x: |
| Total | :heavy_check_mark: | :x: | :x: |
| Adonis | :heavy_check_mark: | :x: | :x: |
| Feathers | :heavy_check_mark: | :x: | :x: |
| Keystone| :heavy_check_mark: | :x: | :x: |
| Nest| :x: | :x: | :x: |
| LoopBack| :x: | :x: | :x: |
| Mean| :x: | :x: | :x: |


### Features
+	[x] Parallel Module Loader
+	[x] Parallel Route Middleware
+	[x] Parallel Plugin Middleware
+	[x] Flash Message
+ [x] Global Access Module

### Installation
```sh
$ npm i natural-utility --save
```
### Example Usage
```javascript
// register all module
const natural = require("natural-utility");
natural.globalModule(
["express", "http", "path",  "bodyParser", "logger", "cookieParser"],
["express", "http", "path",  "body-parser", "morgan", "cookie-parser"]);

// init all module
const app = express();
const server = http.createServer(app);

// init all route
const indexRoute = require("./routes/index.route");

// register all plugin middleware
natural.pluginMiddleware(app, [
bodyParser.urlencoded({ extended: false }),
  bodyParser.json(),
  cookieParser(),
  logger("dev"),
  natural.flashMessage()
]);

// register template engine
app.set("views", path.join(__dirname, "/views"));
app.set("view engine", "ejs");

// register all route midlleware
natural.routeMiddleware(app, [indexRoute]);

// listening server
server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
```

### API Reference

#### naturalModule

  + **globalModule ( inputs: [string...], modules: [string...] )** function method of `naturalModule` to register each given module without the need to rewrite` require`, then the module will be run as parallel, the module can also be accessed as a global in every file or route in many ways, which you haven't to re-register the same module as you want to use it, **note**: global module only supports writing format **CommonJS as require**.

	-  **Before - example usage not using natural-utility**

		+ ```javascript
		  // register all module
		  const express = require("express");
		  const app = express();
		  const http = require("http");
		  const server = http.createServer(app);

		  // listening server
		  server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

	-  **After - example usage using natural-utility**

		+  ```javascript
		   // register all module
		   const natural = require("natural-utility");
		   natural.globalModule(["express", "http"], ["express", "http"]);

		   // init all module
		   const app = express();
		   const server = http.createServer(app);

		   // listening server
		   server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

#### naturalRoute

+ **routeMiddleware ( app,  routes: [string...] )** function method of `naturalRoute` to register each given route, then the route will be run as parallel, which it haven't to rewrite `app.use` **middleware** many of times to register every each route.

	-  **Before - example usage not using natural-utility**

		+ ```javascript
		  // register all module
		  const express = require("express");
		  const app = express();
		  const http = require("http");
		  const server = http.createServer(app);

		  // init all route
		  const indexRoute = require("./routes/home");
		  const usersRoute = require("./routes/users");

		  // register all route middleware
		  app.use(indexRoute);
		  app.use(usersRoute);

		  // listening server
		  server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

	-  **After - example usage using natural-utility**

		+ ```javascript
		  // register all module
		  const natural = require("natural-utility");
		  natural.globalModule(["express", "http"], ["express", "http"]);

		  // init all module
		  const app = express();
		  const server = http.createServer(app);

		  // init all route
		  const indexRoute = require("./routes/home");
		  const usersRoute = require("./routes/users");

		  // register all route middleware
		  natural.routeMiddleware(app, [indexRoute, usersRoute]);

		  // listening server
		  server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

#### naturalPlugin

+  **pluginMiddleware ( app, plugins: [string...], options: {} )** method of the `naturalPlugin` function to register each given plugin, the plugin will be run as parallel, which it haven't to rewrite ` app.use` **middleware** many of times to register every each plugin.

	-  **Before - example usage not using natural-utility**

		+ ```javascript
		  // register all module
		  const express = require("express");
		  const app = express();
		  const http = require("http");
		  const server = http.createServer(app);
		  const bodyParser = require("body-parser");
		  const cookieParser = require("cookie-parser");
		  const logger = require("morgan");

		  // init all route
		  const indexRoute = require("./routes/home");
		  const usersRoute = require("./routes/users");

		  // register all plugin middleware
		  app.use(bodyParser.urlencoded({ extended: false }));
		  app.use(bodyParser.json());
		  app.use(logger("dev"));

		  // register all route middleware
		  app.use(indexRoute);
		  app.use(usersRoute);

		  // listening server
		  server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

	-  **After - example usage using natural-utility**

		+ ```javascript
		  // register all module
		  const natural = require("natural-utility");
		  natural.globalModule(
		  ["express", "http", "bodyParser", "cookieParser", "logger"],
		  ["express", "http", "body-parser", "cookie-parser", "morgan"]);

		  // init all module
		  const app = express();
		  const server = http.createServer(app);

		  // init all route
		  const indexRoute = require("./routes/home");
		  const usersRoute = require("./routes/users");

		  // register all plugin middleware
		  natural.pluginMiddleware(app, [
			bodyParser.urlencoded({ extended: false }),
			bodyParser.json(),
			logger("dev"),
		  ]);

		  // register all route middleware
		  natural.routeMiddleware(app, [indexRoute, usersRoute]);

		  // listening server
		  server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

#### naturalFlash

+ **flashMessage ( message: string | [string...] )** function method of `naturalFlash` to display an error message or any message that might be displayed later, every requested time is made, **note:**` cookie-parser` is needed for this function.

	-  **Before - example usage not using natural-utility**

		+  ```javascript
		   //app.js

		   // register all module
		   const express = require("express");
		   const app = express();
		   const http = require("http");
		   const server = http.createServer(app);
		   const flash = require("connect-flash");
		   const session = require("express-session");

		   //init all route
		   const indexRoute = require("./routes/home");
		   const usersRoute = require("./routes/users");

		   // register all plugin middleware
		   app.use(flash());
		   app.use(session({
			  secret: "kucing",
			  resave: false,
			  saveUninitialized: false
		   }));
		   app.use((req, res, next) => {
			 res.locals.messages = require("express-message")(req, res);
		   });

		   // register all route middleware
		   app.use(indexRoute);
		   app.use(usersRoute);

		   // listening server
		   server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

		+ ```javascript
		  // routes/home.js

		  // register all module
		  const express = require("express");
		  const router = express.Router();

		  // setup route middleware
		  router.get("/", (req, res, next) => {
			req.flash("username already exist");
			res.render("home", {});
		  });

		  // export route middleware
		  module.exports = router;
			```

		+ ```html
		  <!-- views/home.ejs -->

		  <html>
		   <title> Natural </title>
		    <body>
			  <!-- result message -->
			  <h1> <%- messages() %> </h1>
		    </body>
		  </html>
			```

	-  **After - example usage using natural-utility**

		+ ```javascript
		  // app.js

		  // register all module
		  const natural = require("natural-utility");
		  natural.globalModule(
		  ["express", "http", "cookieParser"],
		  ["express", "http", "cookie-parser"]);

		  // init all module
		  const app = express();
		  const server = http.createServer(app);

		  // init all route
		  const indexRoute = require("./routes/home");
		  const usersRoute = require("./routes/users");

		  // register all plugin middleware
		  natural.pluginMiddleware(app, [
			cookieParser(),
			natural.flashMessage()
		  ]);

		  // register all route middleware
		  natural.routeMiddleware(app, [indexRoute]);

		  // listening server
		  server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

		+ ```javascript
		  // routes/home.js

		  // register all module
		  const express = express();
		  const router = express.Router();

		  // setup route middleware
		  router.get("/", (req, res, next) => {

		  // single message
			req.flash("username already exist");
			res.render("home", {});
		  });

		  // export route middleware
		  module.exports = router;
			```

		+ ```javascript
		  // routes/home.js

		  // register all module
		  const express = express();
		  const router = express.Router();

		  // setup route middleware
		  router.get("/", (req, res, next) => {

		  // multiple message
		  let errors = ["username is required", "email is required", "password is required"];
		  for(let i of errors) {
		    req.flash(i);
		  }
		    res.render("home", {});
		  });

		  // export route middleware
		  module.exports = router;
			```

		+ ```html
		  <!-- views/home.ejs -->

		  <html>
		   <title> Natural </title>
			<body>
			  <!-- sigle message -->
			  <h1> <%- messages() %> </h1>
			</body>
		  </html>
			```
		+ ```html
		  <!-- views/home.ejs -->

		  <html>
		   <title> Natural </title>
			 <body>
			  <!-- multiptle message -->
			   <ul>
			     <% if(messages()) { %>
			     <% messages().forEach((msg) => { %>
			       <li> <%= msg %> </li>
			     <%})%>
			    <%}%>
			  </ul>
			</body>
		  </html>
			```

## Working With Database

#### MongoDB

+ **example usage using mongodb**

	+ ```javascript
	  // register all module
	  const natural = require("natural-utility");
	  natural.globalModule(["mongodb"], ["mongodb"]);

	  // init collection  
	  const database = db.db("testing");

	  // init data  
	  const myData = { name: "John Doe", age: 28 };  

	  // insert data to database
	  database.collection("test").insertOne(myData,function(err, res) {
	     if(err) throw err;  
	     console.log("successfuly store data to database");
	     db.close();  
	    });  
	  });
		```

#### MySQL

+ **example usage using mysql**

	+ ```javascript
      // register all module
      const natural = require("natural");
      natural.globalModule(["mysql"], ["mysql"]);

	  // setup database connection
	  const con = mysql.createConnection({
		host: "localhost",
		user: "root",
		password: "",
		database: "testing"
	  });

	  // init connection
	  con.connect(function(err) {		  
	  // insert data to database    
	  const sql = "INSERT INTO test (name, age) VALUES ("john doe", 28)";
	  con.query(sql, function (err, result) {
		 if (err) throw err;
		 console.log("data successfuly to store to database");
		});
	  });
		```

#### PostgreeSQL

+ **example usage using postgree sql**

	+ ```javascript
	  // register all module
	  const natural = require("natural");
	  natural.globalModule(["pg"], ["pg"]);

	  // setup database connection
	  const client = new pg.Client({
		user: 'root',
		host: 'localhost',
		database: 'testing',
		password: '123',
		port: 5432,
	  });

	  // init connection
	  client.connect();

	  // insert data to database
	  const query = `INSERT INTO users (name, age) VALUES ('john doe', 28)`;
	  client.query(query, (err, res) => {
	     if (err) console.error(err);
		 console.log('Data succesfuly to store to database');
		 client.end();
	  });
		```

#### Mongoose

+ **example usage using mongoose**

	+ ```javascript
	  // register all module
	  const natural = require("natural-utility");
	  natural.globalModule(["mongoose"], ["mongoose"]);

	  // setup database connection
	  mongoose.connect("mongodb://localhost:3000/testing");

	  // setup schema  
	  const setSchema = new mongoose.Schema({
		name: String,
		age: Number
	  });

	  // register schema
	  const userSchema = setSchema.model("test", setSchema);

	  // insert data to database
	  userSchema.created({ name: "john doe", age: 28 }, (err, res) => {
		 if(err) return err;
		 console.log("data successfuly store to database");
	  });
		```

## Working With Framework
+	[Example Usage](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/tree/master/example)

## How To Test

**natural-utility** uses `supertest` to mock http requests, thus testing no longer relies on the http server.

+	```bash
	$ npm install
	$ npm test
	$ npm run test
	```

## Contributors

  +	 [Vikri Kurniawan](https://github.com/vicrfiport) - English Translator
  +	 [Restu Wahyu Saputra](https://github.com/restuwahyu13) - Indonesian Translator

## Changelog

+	[Changelog History](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

## License

+	[MIT](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/blob/master/LICENSE.md)

Commit message:

flash message support koajs and cokkie parser is not required

README.md, after:

# **natural-utility**

`natural-utility` is a simple helper tool to get easily your work as a **module loader**, **route middleware**, **plugin middleware** and **flash message**.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility) [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/ju7ciy6fh42rsnkl?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/restuwahyu13/natural-utility) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/restuwahyu13/natural-utility) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/restuwahyu13/natural-utility?branch=master) [![Known Vulnerabilities](https://snyk.io/test/github/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/badge.svg?targetFile=package.json)](https://snyk.io/test/github/restuwahyu13/natural-utility?targetFile=package.json) [![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg)](https://standardjs.com) [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/natural-utility.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/natural-utility) [![install size](https://packagephobia.now.sh/badge?p=natural-utility)](https://packagephobia.now.sh/result?p=natural-utility) ![node-current](https://img.shields.io/node/v/natural-utility) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/restuwahyu13/natural-utility)


## Table of Contents

- [Get Started](#get-started)
	* [Language Translate](#language-translate)
		* [Indonesian](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/tree/master/language/indonesian)
		* [English](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/tree/master/language/english)
	* [Framework Support](#framework-support)
	* [Features](#features)
	* [Installation](#installation)
	* [Example Usage](#example-usage)
	* [API Reference](#api-reference)
		* [naturalModule](#naturalmodule)
		* [naturalRoute](#naturalroute)
		* [naturalPlugin](#naturalplugin)
		* [naturalFlash](#naturalflash)
	* [Working With Database](#working-with-database)
		* [MongoDB](#mongodb)
		* [MySQL](#my-sql)
		* [PostgreeSQL](#postgree-sql)
		* [Mongoose](#mongoose)
	* [Working With Framework](#working-with-framework)
	* [How To Test](#how-to-test)
	* [Contributors](#contributors)
	* [Changelog](#changelog)
	* [Lincense](#license)

## Get Started

### Language Translate
+ [Indonesian](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/tree/master/language/indonesian)
+ [English](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/tree/master/language/english)

### Framework Support

| Framework Support | globalModule | pluginMiddleware | flashMessage |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Express | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: |
| Koa | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: |  :heavy_check_mark:  |
| Hapi | :heavy_check_mark: | :x: | :x:  |
| Fastify | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | :x:  |
| Restify | :heavy_check_mark: | :x: | :x: |
| Sails | :heavy_check_mark: | :x: | :x: |
| Total | :heavy_check_mark: | :x: | :x: |
| Adonis | :heavy_check_mark: | :x: | :x: |
| Feathers | :heavy_check_mark: | :x: | :x: |
| Keystone| :heavy_check_mark: | :x: | :x: |
| Nest| :x: | :x: | :x: |
| LoopBack| :x: | :x: | :x: |
| Mean| :x: | :x: | :x: |


### Features
+	[x] Parallel Module Loader
+	[x] Parallel Route Middleware
+	[x] Parallel Plugin Middleware
+	[x] Flash Message
+ [x] Global Module Access

### Installation
```sh
$ npm i natural-utility --save
| OR
$ yarn add natural-utility --save
```
### Example Usage
```javascript
// register all module
const natural = require("natural-utility");
natural.globalModule(
["express", "http", "path",  "bodyParser", "logger", "cookieParser"],
["express", "http", "path",  "body-parser", "morgan", "cookie-parser"]);

// init all module
const app = express();
const server = http.createServer(app);

// init all route
const indexRoute = require("./routes/index.route");

// register all plugin middleware
natural.pluginMiddleware(app, [
bodyParser.urlencoded({ extended: false }),
  bodyParser.json(),
  cookieParser(),
  logger("dev"),
  natural.flashExpress()
]);

// register template engine
app.set("views", path.join(__dirname, "/views"));
app.set("view engine", "ejs");

// register all route midlleware
natural.routeMiddleware(app, [indexRoute]);

// listening server
server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
```

### API Reference

#### naturalModule

  + **globalModule ( inputs: [string...], modules: [string...] )** function method of `naturalModule` to register each given module without the need to rewrite` require`, then the module will be run as parallel, the module can also be accessed as a global in every file or route in many ways, which you haven't to re-register the same module as you want to use it, **note**: global module only supports writing format **CommonJS as require**.

	-  **Before - example usage not using natural-utility**

		+ ```javascript
		  // register all module
		  const express = require("express");
		  const app = express();
		  const http = require("http");
		  const server = http.createServer(app);

		  // listening server
		  server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

	-  **After - example usage using natural-utility**

		+  ```javascript
		   // register all module
		   const natural = require("natural-utility");
		   natural.globalModule(["express", "http"], ["express", "http"]);

		   // init all module
		   const app = express();
		   const server = http.createServer(app);

		   // listening server
		   server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

#### naturalRoute

+ **routeMiddleware ( app,  routes: [string...] )** function method of `naturalRoute` to register each given route, then the route will be run as parallel, which it haven't to rewrite `app.use` **middleware** many of times to register every each route.

	-  **Before - example usage not using natural-utility**

		+ ```javascript
		  // register all module
		  const express = require("express");
		  const app = express();
		  const http = require("http");
		  const server = http.createServer(app);

		  // init all route
		  const indexRoute = require("./routes/home");
		  const usersRoute = require("./routes/users");

		  // register all route middleware
		  app.use(indexRoute);
		  app.use(usersRoute);

		  // listening server
		  server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

	-  **After - example usage using natural-utility**

		+ ```javascript
		  // register all module
		  const natural = require("natural-utility");
		  natural.globalModule(["express", "http"], ["express", "http"]);

		  // init all module
		  const app = express();
		  const server = http.createServer(app);

		  // init all route
		  const indexRoute = require("./routes/home");
		  const usersRoute = require("./routes/users");

		  // register all route middleware
		  natural.routeMiddleware(app, [indexRoute, usersRoute]);

		  // listening server
		  server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

#### naturalPlugin

+  **pluginMiddleware ( app, plugins: [string...], options: {} )** method of the `naturalPlugin` function to register each given plugin, the plugin will be run as parallel, which it haven't to rewrite ` app.use` **middleware** many of times to register every each plugin.

	-  **Before - example usage not using natural-utility**

		+ ```javascript
		  // register all module
		  const express = require("express");
		  const app = express();
		  const http = require("http");
		  const server = http.createServer(app);
		  const bodyParser = require("body-parser");
		  const cookieParser = require("cookie-parser");
		  const logger = require("morgan");

		  // init all route
		  const indexRoute = require("./routes/home");
		  const usersRoute = require("./routes/users");

		  // register all plugin middleware
		  app.use(bodyParser.urlencoded({ extended: false }));
		  app.use(bodyParser.json());
		  app.use(logger("dev"));

		  // register all route middleware
		  app.use(indexRoute);
		  app.use(usersRoute);

		  // listening server
		  server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

	-  **After - example usage using natural-utility**

		+ ```javascript
		  // register all module
		  const natural = require("natural-utility");
		  natural.globalModule(
		  ["express", "http", "bodyParser", "cookieParser", "logger"],
		  ["express", "http", "body-parser", "cookie-parser", "morgan"]);

		  // init all module
		  const app = express();
		  const server = http.createServer(app);

		  // init all route
		  const indexRoute = require("./routes/home");
		  const usersRoute = require("./routes/users");

		  // register all plugin middleware
		  natural.pluginMiddleware(app, [
			bodyParser.urlencoded({ extended: false }),
			bodyParser.json(),
			logger("dev"),
		  ]);

		  // register all route middleware
		  natural.routeMiddleware(app, [indexRoute, usersRoute]);

		  // listening server
		  server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

#### naturalFlash

+ **flashMessage ( )** function method of `naturalFlash` to display an error message or any message that might be displayed later, every requested time is made, **note:**` cookie-parser` is not required now and **flashMessage** is now renamed to **flashExpress**, [more info check here](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/tree/master/example).

	-  **Before - example usage not using natural-utility**

		+  ```javascript
		   //app.js

		   // register all module
		   const express = require("express");
		   const app = express();
		   const http = require("http");
		   const server = http.createServer(app);
		   const flash = require("connect-flash");
		   const session = require("express-session");

		   //init all route
		   const indexRoute = require("./routes/home");
		   const usersRoute = require("./routes/users");

		   // register all plugin middleware
		   app.use(flash());
		   app.use(session({
			  secret: "kucing",
			  resave: false,
			  saveUninitialized: false
		   }));
		   app.use((req, res, next) => {
			 res.locals.messages = require("express-message")(req, res);
		   });

		   // register all route middleware
		   app.use(indexRoute);
		   app.use(usersRoute);

		   // listening server
		   server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

		+ ```javascript
		  // routes/home.js

		  // register all module
		  const express = require("express");
		  const router = express.Router();

		  // setup route middleware
		  router.get("/", (req, res, next) => {
			req.flash("username already exist");
			res.render("home", {});
		  });

		  // export route middleware
		  module.exports = router;
			```

		+ ```html
		  <!-- views/home.ejs -->

		  <html>
		   <title> Natural </title>
		    <body>
			  <!-- result message -->
			  <h1> <%- messages() %> </h1>
		    </body>
		  </html>
			```

	-  **After - example usage using natural-utility**

		+ ```javascript
		  // app.js

		  // register all module
		  const natural = require("natural-utility");
		  natural.globalModule(
		  ["express", "http", "cookieParser"],
		  ["express", "http", "cookie-parser"]);

		  // init all module
		  const app = express();
		  const server = http.createServer(app);

		  // init all route
		  const indexRoute = require("./routes/home");
		  const usersRoute = require("./routes/users");

		  // register all plugin middleware
		  natural.pluginMiddleware(app, [
			cookieParser(),
			natural.flashExpress()
		  ]);

		  // register all route middleware
		  natural.routeMiddleware(app, [indexRoute]);

		  // listening server
		  server.listen(3000, () => console.log("server is running"));
			```

		+ ```javascript
		  // routes/home.js

		  // register all module
		  const express = express();
		  const router = express.Router();

		  // setup route middleware
		  router.get("/", (req, res, next) => {

		  // single message
			req.flash("username already exist");
			res.render("home", {});
		  });

		  // export route middleware
		  module.exports = router;
			```

		+ ```javascript
		  // routes/home.js

		  // register all module
		  const express = express();
		  const router = express.Router();

		  // setup route middleware
		  router.get("/", (req, res, next) => {

		  // multiple message
		  let errors = ["username is required", "email is required", "password is required"];
		  for(let i of errors) {
		    req.flash(i);
		  }
		    res.render("home", {});
		  });

		  // export route middleware
		  module.exports = router;
			```

		+ ```html
		  <!-- views/home.ejs -->

		  <html>
		   <title> Natural </title>
			<body>
			  <!-- sigle message -->
			  <h1> <%- messages() %> </h1>
			</body>
		  </html>
			```
		+ ```html
		  <!-- views/home.ejs -->

		  <html>
		   <title> Natural </title>
			 <body>
			  <!-- multiptle message -->
			   <ul>
			     <% if(messages()) { %>
			     <% messages().forEach((msg) => { %>
			       <li> <%= msg %> </li>
			     <%})%>
			    <%}%>
			  </ul>
			</body>
		  </html>
			```

## Working With Database

#### MongoDB

+ **example usage using mongodb**

	+ ```javascript
	  // register all module
	  const natural = require("natural-utility");
	  natural.globalModule(["mongodb"], ["mongodb"]);

	  // init collection  
	  const database = db.db("testing");

	  // init data  
	  const myData = { name: "John Doe", age: 28 };  

	  // insert data to database
	  database.collection("test").insertOne(myData,function(err, res) {
	     if(err) throw err;  
	     console.log("successfuly store data to database");
	     db.close();  
	    });  
	  });
		```

#### MySQL

+ **example usage using mysql**

	+ ```javascript
      // register all module
      const natural = require("natural");
      natural.globalModule(["mysql"], ["mysql"]);

	  // setup database connection
	  const con = mysql.createConnection({
		host: "localhost",
		user: "root",
		password: "",
		database: "testing"
	  });

	  // init connection
	  con.connect(function(err) {		  
	  // insert data to database    
	  const sql = "INSERT INTO test (name, age) VALUES ("john doe", 28)";
	  con.query(sql, function (err, result) {
		 if (err) throw err;
		 console.log("data successfuly to store to database");
		});
	  });
		```

#### PostgreeSQL

+ **example usage using postgree sql**

	+ ```javascript
	  // register all module
	  const natural = require("natural");
	  natural.globalModule(["pg"], ["pg"]);

	  // setup database connection
	  const client = new pg.Client({
		user: 'root',
		host: 'localhost',
		database: 'testing',
		password: '123',
		port: 5432,
	  });

	  // init connection
	  client.connect();

	  // insert data to database
	  const query = `INSERT INTO users (name, age) VALUES ('john doe', 28)`;
	  client.query(query, (err, res) => {
	     if (err) console.error(err);
		 console.log('Data succesfuly to store to database');
		 client.end();
	  });
		```

#### Mongoose

+ **example usage using mongoose**

	+ ```javascript
	  // register all module
	  const natural = require("natural-utility");
	  natural.globalModule(["mongoose"], ["mongoose"]);

	  // setup database connection
	  mongoose.connect("mongodb://localhost:3000/testing");

	  // setup schema  
	  const setSchema = new mongoose.Schema({
		name: String,
		age: Number
	  });

	  // register schema
	  const userSchema = setSchema.model("test", setSchema);

	  // insert data to database
	  userSchema.created({ name: "john doe", age: 28 }, (err, res) => {
		 if(err) return err;
		 console.log("data successfuly store to database");
	  });
		```

## Working With Framework
+	[Example Usage](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/tree/master/example)

## How To Test

**natural-utility** uses `supertest` to mock http requests, thus testing no longer relies on the http server.

+	```bash
	$ npm install
	$ npm test
	$ npm run test
	```

## Contributors

  +	 [Vikri Kurniawan](https://github.com/vicrfiport) - English Translator
  +	 [Restu Wahyu Saputra](https://github.com/restuwahyu13) - Indonesian Translator

## Changelog

+	[Changelog History](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

## License

+	[MIT](https://github.com/restuwahyu13/natural-utility/blob/master/LICENSE.md)
